Wireless Local Are Networks
Machine-to-machine communication
Device-to-device communication
Multi-Tier Cellular Wireless Networks
Wireless and Communication Networks
Offloading in mobile cloudlet systems
wireless sensor networks
software-defined networking
cognitive radio networks
Smart grid
Wireless Local Are Networks
Wireless Personal Area Networks
Wireless Wide Area Networks
Wireless mesh networks
multi-hop
cellular networks
wireless communications
WiMAX
sensor node
channel
multi-channel 
MIMO
device-to-device
D2D
spectrum resource
cognitive radio
Spectrum sensing
Multimedia Wireless Communications
Radio Resource Management
Quality-of-Service (QoS) Provisioning
Network Performance Analysis
Content Networking
Green Network
Ad Hoc and Mobile Networks
Overlay Networks
Wireless Sensor Networks
Mobile and Pervasive Computing
Sensor Networks
Radio Resource Management
Network Performance Analysis
Economics Modeling of Wireless Communications and Networking
Network Security
Social Media Platform
cognitive radio networks
wireless access
WiFi
Media access control
Tier
Multi-Tier
fading
propagation
jamming
Fayleigh
Ethernet Networking
Network Topology
Network Addressing
Wireless Networking
Encryption
Authentication
Adding Wi-Fi 
Ethernet 
Transmit
Medium access control 
M2M
D2D
Ad hoc networks
Data link
global positioning system
multihop
cellular
mobile 
paging systems
satellite networks
Ultrawideband Radios
Wireless Spectrum
Power Spectral Density
multiple-input and multiple-output
Long Term Evolution
beamforming
antenna
orthogonal
Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access
OFDMA
OFDM
Orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing
Mobile radio telephone
Wi-Fi
Antenna diversity
Smart Antennas
multiplexing
Flat Rayleigh Fading
wavelength
frequency
Code-Division Multiple Access
CDMA
Time-Division Multiple Access
TDMA
Frequency-Division Multiple Access
FDMA
Downlink
uplink
ZigBee
Ethernet
Ultra Wide Band
cryptography
WWAN
GPS
Over the last two decades, wireless communications have
gained enormous popularity. Wireless offers an attractive option
for many personal as well as organizational communication
needs because of flexibility, cost effectiveness, and mobility.
Consider, for example, communication needs of a large
company; it is estimated that 30 percent of LAN nodes are
reallocated every year [1]. Wireless communication minimizes
the cost of cabling and offers flexible installation leading to
simpler network infrastructure. It requires fewer constraints on
workplace architecture simplifying floor planning. Availability
of ready installation made wireless networks a suitable solution
for static, dynamic as well as temporary demand. Wireless
provides extensibility options to wired counterparts that have
reached cabling limits. Moreover, wireless communication
is naturally suitable for mobile applications. The need for
wireless communications, thus, cannot be overestimated
Two transmission techniques for wireless communications
have been deployed; Radio Frequency (RF) and Infrared. The
well-established industry experience in radio frequency led to
quick development of RF-based wireless technologies. The
RF wireless systems offer a wide range of coverage and a
host of compatible devices. The popularity of RF wireless
communications has experienced exponential gain during the
last decade. On the other hand, the growing demand of
broadband applications and congestion of RF spectrum have
fueled interest in the development of the infrared option.
The use of diffused infrared radiation in wireless communications
was first proposed in [2]. The then-novel idea has led to
growing interest in using optical signals in free space and has
inspired related research and development. The Infrared Data
Association (IrDA) was an outcome of the increased interest in
the infrared option [3]. IrDA was founded to establish wireless
optical standards vis-a-vis to propagate development of new
optical wireless technologies. As wireless optical evolved, the
IEEE 802.11 IR standard for wireless LANs was a result of
realizing the importance of wireless optical.
Early research in wireless optical was focused on design issues
related to infrared wireless technologies [1], [4]. As a result,
six different types of infrared links were proposed based on the
degree of directionality and Line of Sight (LOS) between the
transmitter and receiver [5], [6], [7]. The effect of infrared
radiation on the human eye was recognized as a research
issue of significant concern and influenced the design of safe
infrared devices [4], [8]. Performance issues have also caught
attention of researchers. Power budget, light interference, and
receiver sensitivity are examples of such issues [9], [10], [11],
[12]. Advances in performance enhancement research have led
to novel techniques including hybrid diffused-LOS and hybrid
infrared-radio systems [13], [14].
Wireless optical has a lot to offer. It holds the promise of
increasing the data rate by many orders of magnitude that
has been validated in experimental laboratory systems [15].
Optical wireless systems with a data rate comparable to RF
wireless systems already have been implemented. However,
real-life indoor systems that realize the Gb/s level data rate
have not yet seen the light due to cost and other commercial
issues [11] (i.e. outdoor systems at the Gb/s level are commercially
available). In a recent guest editorial in the IEEE Communications
Magazine, it is stated that the current research in
wireless optical focuses on increasing the bit rate and reducing
the effect of impairments [16]. This area offers enormous opportunities for basic and applied research and development
in the near future. In addition, research and development at
commercial application level is needed. The field is therefore
in need for a thorough assessment of its current state. This
motivates us to survey the wireless optical field emphasizing
major design, performance, and safety issues. We also identify
research directions that possess the potential to close the gap
between theory and practice in wireless optical.
Wireless optical transmission can be classified according to
the distance between the transmitter and receiver. Accordingly,
two classes of wireless optical systems called long and short
distance systems have been recognized. Long distance systems
are used for outdoor wireless optical. While, short distance
systems can be applied for both outdoor and indoor environments.
A long distance system usually connects receivers
and transmitters that are 100’s of meters apart. An outdoor
system is mainly used for bridging two different networks. As
a result, long distance systems must offer a high bit rate, which
conventionally requires the use of high optical power sources
such as laser. However, a high power laser can represent a
hazard to human eyes. Accordingly, transmitters and receivers
are commonly mounted on buildings roofs or in safe places
where humans cannot interrupt the beams. Yet, experiments
have been successful using low power sources in outdoor
systems leading to eye-safe designs [17].
Indoor systems are suitable for in-office and in-home LANs.
An indoor optical wireless network comprises a number of
cells, every cell commonly has a base station and a group
of computing hosts. The indoor cells, in this regime, are
supported by a fast backbone infrastructure where a fiber
optics transmission is considered a good option. Due to
technical implications of infrared signals, an indoor wireless
optical cell is usually confined to a single room. Indoor
and outdoor wireless optical systems share many design and
performance issues. However, the atmospheric effect on indoor
systems is almost non-existent [17]. Outdoor systems have
a big advantage over indoor systems; the ability to operate
high power emitters that may present hazards to the human
eyes and thus cannot be used in indoor systems. High power
emitters offer tempting data rates. The indoor transmission link
within a cell is classified according to the degree of directivity
and the existence of a line of sight between the transmitter
and the receiver [6], [7]. There are three configurations of
directionality; directed, hybrid, and non-directed. A directed
link requires both the transmitter and receiver to be directed.
On the other hand, line of sight links either exist or do not,
this leaves only two possibilities; LOS and non-LOS. The
combination of the two kinds of line of sight links and the three
degrees of directionality yields six different types of indoor
optical links. Among the six link forms, optical telepoint, also
known as Line Of Sight (LOS), and diffused systems are the
most commonly used. Optical telepoint systems implement
directed line of sight links, while diffused systems have nondirected
links with no line of sight. Conventionally, in an
optical telepoint system, a satellite source (base station) of
infrared signals is mounted to the ceiling. The base station and
host terminals must keep line of sight links. The base station
emits relatively confined beams covering a certain area. In
diffused systems, a base station is also attached to the ceiling.
However, there is no line of sight or direction constraints on
the alignment of the base station and the terminals. In this
system, a wide angle source emits beams that are allowed to
reflect off physical objects within the cell. Terminals receivers
have wide angle that cover the whole plane.
In general, power efficiency improves as the degree of directionality
increases and/or line of sight exists because, in both
cases, the path loss is minimized [18]. Accordingly, optical
telepoint systems have better power efficiency than diffused
systems. LOS systems can support higher data rates than
diffused systems because energy is more confined in optical
telepoint systems [1]. However, optical telepoint systems are
more prone to blocking as the transmitter and receiver must
be able to see each other at all times. Further, maintaining
precise directions for transmitter and receiver is not trivial.
On the other hand, diffused systems show more resistance to
blockage due to the availability of more than one path between
the transmitter and receiver. Diffused systems provide wider
area of coverage than optical telepoint leading to a better
mobility support. Though, mutlipath impairments affect the
performance of diffused systems.
Wireless communication has been one of the fastest
growing industries during the recent years, and wireless
application, such as personal communication services (PCS),
cellular communications, satellite communications,
broadcasting, High-Definition TV (HDTV), Personal Digital
Assistant (PDA), wireless LAN, Bluetooth, and so on.
Global System for Mobile (GSM) is a second-generation
cellular system standard. It is the first cellular system to
specify digital modulation and network level architectures
and services. The first significant set of Radio Frequency
(RF-ICS) for GSM standard started at 1900.GSM was first
introduced in Europe in 1991 and today it is the most
common cellular standard.
At present, GSM system is one of the most popular
digital cellular telecommunications systems in our country,
which is widely used in the whole world. With the increase
of the number and the requirement of GSM subscriber, GSM
wireless communication system has attracted more and more
attention in the field of mobile telecommunication.
GSM System utilizes two bands of 25MHz, 890-915MHz
and 935-960MHz for the transmit and receive bands of the
mobile system respectively; It uses FDD (frequency Division
Duplex) and TDMA (Time Division Multiple Access). The
receive band is divided into 128channels each with 200 KHz
bandwidth. Each channel is shared between as many as eight
users.
GSM system mainly is made of three parts, Network and
Switching Subsystem (NNS), Basic Station Subsystem (BSS)
and Operation Support Subsystem (OSS). Mobile-Services
Switching Center (MSC) is the heart of the NNS. It can
finish the basic change function. The conjunction of other net
can connect with MSC conjunction. BBS is made of basic
system controller (BSC), basic transceiver system (BTS) and
mobile system (MS). OOS can manage and monitor whole
the GSM system. It is made of operation maintenance center
(OMC) and system software. The growth of the wireless communication market over
the last decade was characterized by the evolution of
different standards and the need of low-cost, low power, and
on-chip integrated third generation (3G) receiver capable of
adapting to these different standards. The base-band and RF
front-end sections are required to accommodate different
wireless standards such as global system for mobile
communication (GSM). So we tell more about the GSM
system because it is very hard to understand and very useful
in our country. The objective of this survey is to investigate
the feature of the GSM system.The traditional problem faced by mobile radio system
designers has been how to balance the conflicting
requirements of area coverage and user capacity. In 1970’s,
this scenario allowed Bell Mobile systems in New York City
to support just 12 simultaneous calls. Taking into
consideration the limited spectrum allocated by government,
it was a logical evolution step to come up with the cellular
concept. It implies that instead of having a large area covered
by single transmitter, that area can be divided it smaller
coverage areas called cells.
The cellular concept was a major breakthrough in solving
the problem of spectral congestion and user capacity. It
offered very high capacity in a limited spectrum allocation
without any major technological changer. It is a system level
idea which calls for replacing a single, high power
transmitter much low power transmitters. The cellular is one
of the wireless communication system (WCS).
WCS have a lot of parts. Base Station is a fixed station in
a mobile radio system used for radio communication with
mobile stations. Control Channel is a radio channel used for
transmission of call setup; call request and other beacon or
control purposes. Mobile Station is a station in the cellular
radio service intended for use while in motion at unspecified
locations Mobile Switching Center which coordinates the
routing of calls in a large service area. Subscriber is a user
who pays subscription charges for using a mobile
communications system. Transceiver is a device capable of
simultaneously transmitting and receiving radio signals.
Global system for Mobile (GSM) is a second generation
cellular system standard that was developed to solve the
fragmentation problems of the first cellular systems. GSM is
the world’s first cellular system to specify digital modulation
and network lever architectures and services. It is now the
world’s most popular standard for new cellular radio and
personal communications equipment throughout the world.
The GSM (Group special mobile) committee took up the task
of specifying a common Mobile communication system for
Europe the 900 MHz band. Recently, GSM has changed its
name to the Global system for Mobile Communications for
marketing reasons. GSM was first introduced into the
European market in 1991. By the end of 1993, several won
European countries in South America, Asia, and Australia
had adopted GSM and the technically equivalent offshoot
DCS 1800, which supports personal communication services
(PCS) in the 1.8 GHz to 2.0 GHz radio hands recently
created by governments throughout the world.
In this paper, we present a comprehensive survey on
complementary code (CC)-based multiple-input multiple-output
(MIMO) code-division multiple access (CDMA) for futuristic wireless
communications. This paper starts with the construction of
CCs and then proceeds to describe the design of CC-based CDMA
and MIMO wireless communication systems. Complementarycoded
chip-level space–time coding offers a unique paradigm to
implement multiuser MIMO systems, opening up a new dimension
to combine multiple-access and multiple-antenna techniques in a
unified platform for a possible system design optimization of a
wireless communication system in the future. In this paper, we
will also discuss various potential research topics and technical
challenges that need to be tackled before a complementary-coded
MIMO CDMA system can be implemented in practical wireless
applications.
WIRELESS mobile communication technologies are
evolving rapidly in order to bridge the gaps between fast
growing demands for wireless services and limited performance
provided by current wireless infrastructures. Among various
technologies related to wireless communications, multiple access
of the air interface plays a critical role, which determines
how a common medium is shared amongst users. Therefore,
the history of mobile communications when the development of
multiple access techniques, from Frequency Division Multiple
Access (FDMA), Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA),
Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA), to Orthogonal Frequency
Division Multiplexing Access (OFDMA), shows the
evolutional path of mobile communication systems from the 1st
generation to the upcoming 4th generation (4G).
It is indeed an interesting observation that the concept of
OFDMA is essentially the same as FDMA, which is a way of
sharing bandwidth amongst users as employed in the very early
stage of modern communications. Owing to a series of technical
breakthroughs, such as the use of overlapped spectrum, the
discrete Fourier transform (DFT), and the cyclic prefix (CP),
OFDMA has become a dominant and popular multiple access
technique in the 4G wireless communications. However, it has
to be admitted that OFDMA suffers from serious drawbacks,
including its sensitivity to peak-to-average power ratio (PAPR)
[1] and its performance degradation under carrier frequency
offset (CFO) and multi-path effects [2]. Particularly, a CP has
to be used in every OFDM symbol to avoid Inter Symbol
Interference (ISI) caused by multi-path propagation, which
consumes additional (about 25%, which is not trivial) channel
resource with a reduced spectral efficiency.
We also observe that code division multiple access, proposed
as a robust technology for 2G and 3G mobile cellular standards,
has its unique ways to mitigate many interference problems otherwise
impossible to use relatively simple techniques, such as
RAKE receiver, etc. Unfortunately, CDMA was not selected as
a main-stream multiple access technology for the 4G wireless
communications, but it remains to be a very strong candidate
for the futuristic wireless applications. In this paper, we are
going to revisit the research efforts made in the process of
CDMA technology development to see if it can come back as
a primary multiple access technology in the future. If yes, what
innovations we should make for it.
In fact, from the narrowband 2G CDMA technique to the
wideband 3G CDMA technique, the core technologies of
CDMA systems are very similar. We do not see any significant
progress made in the evolution of CDMA technologies from
2G to 3G, and the latter was improved only in its capacity and
coverage with an enhanced flexibility in supporting multimedia
services. It is well known that all existing CDMA based 2–3G
standards are still interference-limited. It has to be admitted
that an immediate cause for this is the undesirable properties
of the spreading sequences they used: the non-zero sidelobes
of auto-correlation functions will result in severe multi-path
interference (MPI) and the non-zero values of cross-correlation
functions will result in serious multiple access interference
(MAI).
On the other hand, the poor performance of the current
CDMA systems has also something to do with their spreading
codes that were designed without considering the effects of
practical communication channels. The design of spreading
codes for CDMA applications is a traditional research topic,
and many candidate codes were found in the literature in the 60s
and earlier. However, they were generated and applied to systems
only based on the knowledge of seemly acceptable properties
in their periodic auto- and cross-correlation functions.
Due to the use of this code design approach, which ignored
real application scenarios in wireless systems (e.g., uplink
asynchronous transmissions, varying signs in bit stream, and
MPI), a great deal of auxiliary sub-systems or techniques have
to be employed in all current CDMA applications, such as
power control and multi-user detection (just as two examples),
to mitigate the problems associated with the spreading codes,
such as near-far effect, MAI, and MPI.
In order to bring CDMA back on track via the innovation
of CDMA technologies, a possible solution was proposed with
the help of a new spreading code design methodology based
on complementary codes (CCs) [3]–[5]. The advantages of
complementary coded CDMA (CC-CDMA) mainly lie in the
fact as stated below.
Different from all traditional spreading sequences, the
orthogonality of CCs is established based on a “flock”
of element sequences jointly. As a result, ideal autoand
cross-correlation properties are realizable at the same
time, while it never happens for any traditional spread
sequences as proved by the Welch bound [6] and Sarwate
bound [7].
2) The design approach of CCs takes into account various
implementation constraints of a practical CDMA system,
such as MPI, asynchronous transmission, different signs
of consecutive bits in data stream, and so on. Thus,
a CC-CDMA system can significantly outperform any
traditional CDMA system, especially in asynchronous
multi-path and multi-user scenarios.
3) Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) techniques can
be integrated in a CC-CDMA system with three dimensional
complementary codes (3DCCs). This is a brand
new attempt to implement a unified wireless communication
platform with integrated multi-user and multiantenna
techniques for better system optimization in the
future (this remains to be a widely open issue, worthy
making a lot of fresh research efforts).
In this paper, we present a comprehensive survey based
on the existing literature in the area of CC-CDMA wireless
communications to provide an overview on the state-of-theart
research in the field. Our motivation for such an overview
is threefold. First, CC-CDMA wireless communication is a
promising technique to innovate existing mobile communication
systems to meet the growing demands. It is characterized
by not only a new code structure but also a new design philosophy
of spreading or signature codes for CDMA applications.
Second, to the best of our knowledge, a thorough survey on
CCs or CC-CDMA wireless communications is not available
in the literature, although the initial idea of CCs can be traced
back to as early as 1949. Finally, complementary coded wireless
communication is still far from mature, although many major
theoretical investigations have been made and reported. Hence,
we would like also to discuss about the technical challenges for
its implementation.
The remainder of this paper is outlined as follows. Section II
gives a history briefing on CCs. Section III introduces different
types of CCs for CDMA applications, and the architectures
of CC-CDMA systems are also classified and discussed.
Section IV takes a look at complementary coded MIMO CDMA
systems as a new multi-user MIMO paradigm. Section V discusses
the future works left over for the further investigations,
followed by Section VI that concludes the paper 
WIRELESS networks have seen tremendous growth to
support Quality of Service (QoS) and Quality of Expectation
(QoE) requirements of diverse applications with increasing
number of users. To cope with these requirements, various
wireless standards have been proposed, ranging from technologies
characterized by networks for few User Equipments
(UEs) with small coverage area (e.g. bluetooth) to networks
with larger coverage and hundreds of users (e.g. LTE). These
technologies are diverse in nature and coexist in the same environment to provide ubiquitous network coverage. With the
increased drive from the industry for a fully connected network,
there is also a need to design heterogeneous wireless network
(HetNet) architecture to interconnect these different wireless
networks [1]–[5], where UEs can connect to any available
wireless network depending on their requirements. Such an
over development of wireless technologies using static resource
allocation techniques can result in spectrum scarcity and low
Spectrum Efficiency (SE) [6]. Dynamic radio resource allocation
and Cognitive Radio (CR) based algorithms can then be
used to enhance SE and Energy Efficiency (EE) of the system
[7]–[11].
According to some estimates, the global information communications
technology (ICT) ecosystem consumes around 1100
to 1800 Terawatt-hours of electricity annually, which is roughly
equal to the electricity used by Germany and Japan combined
[12]. Worldwide telecommunication networks (which include
wire-line, wireless and core networks) are responsible for more
than one third of this energy consumption due to increased
coverage and user subscriptions. For example, in UK a typical
mobile phone operator may consume approximately 40 MW,
excluding the power consumed by the user’s handsets [13]. In
several countries, direct access to electricity is not available
at each and every cell site and hence diesel generators (direct
source of CO2 emissions) are used to power the Base Stations
(BSs). It should also be noted that BSs consume almost 60%
of the total power consumption of a typical mobile network
[14]. Furthermore, the data traffic volume of mobile broadband
networks is expected to increase by 89 times in the year
2020 as compared to the traffic volumes in 2010 [15]. The
movement of this data from core network to user handset will
also demand significant amount of energy. For example, to
deliver an hour of video on weekly basis to a smartphone for
one year will consume more power than the combined annual
power consumption of two household refrigerators [12]. To
meet these challenges, green evolution is becoming an urgent
need for wireless networks. It should be noted that the word
‘Green’ has been coined to focus on reducing CO2 emission and
energy efficient systems are considered as green as long as they
introduce less gas emissions. A study by GreenTouch indicates
that despite the data traffic growth in the next decade, wireless
networks can be made Green by reducing their overall energy
consumption by almost 90% in the year 2020 with significant
economic and environmental impact [15]. This green evolution
for energy-efficient communication, which can be possible
through re-engineering communication system for long-term